---
title: "Post 3"

categories:
  - Weekly Log
tags:
  - ROS2
  - Service Robotics
---

# Auto parking

## Index:
* [State Machine](#state-machine)
  * [Start align](#start-align)
  * [Searching parking lot](#searching-parking-lot)
  * [Decide reference align](#decide-reference-align)
  * [Park](#park)
  * [Parked](#parked)
* [Implementation with holonomic car](#implementation-with-holonomic-car)
* [Changes for holonomic car and refinement](#changes-for-holonomic-car-and-refinement)
* [Final result](#final-result)

---
---

## State Machine
A state machine was used to guide the car through each stage and maneuver of parking:

<!-- State machine image -->
---

### Start align
In this stage, the car looks for the reference line and approaches with a safety distance. It consists of 2 submodes:
1. **Approximate to line:** In this mode, the car will approach the parking taking the front laser as a reference until reaching a safety distance.
2. **Align to park lot:** The car will turn in the opposite direction to align with the parking. This will be achieved by calculating the angle in the x-axis between different values of the laser (only x component) and finding its covariance and mean. When the covariance approaches 0 (taking the side laser as a reference), it means that the car is aligned with the parking.

---

### Searching parking lot
Once aligned, the car will move straight and look for parking. Initially, the Hough transform was intended to be used for this process, but after researching various sources, it was found that, as it is a laser and has only 1 dimension in measurements, it could be an inefficient method. Therefore, a function was implemented that searches for the equivalent number of measurements with a value margin and also an intermediate measurements margin (to avoid possible laser errors).

---

### Decide reference align
In the first implementation, the car was programmed so that if the front space is extensive, instead of reversing, the car will directly enter the parking as is often done in practical cases. If there is not enough space forward, the maneuver will be in reverse since both maneuvers are equivalent; the only change is a sign change in the parking speeds, so its implementation was straightforward.

---

### Park
It will also be divided into 2 submodules. The first will be the first maneuver, turning the car with the front facing the road to start entering the parking. The second maneuver will be to turn in the opposite direction to finish parking the car. The transition between states will be determined by a reference distance, and if it is parked, by the variance of the rear (or front) laser, depending on the reference measurement.

---

### Parked
Final state indicating that the car is parked.

---
---

## Implementation with holonomic car
Although the car was used as if it were a non-holonomic one, this implementation was quite simple and easily approached the final result of the exercise. When testing with the holonomic car, the algorithm worked considerably well; however, a couple of changes had to be made to the behavior.

---
---

## Changes for holonomic car and refinement
For this implementation, a couple of aspects were considered:
* In this problem, the car will not park if there is no other car around since it will lose its reference system and would not know where it is parking.
* In parking, safety distances will be added so that the car can maneuver better. This will not be a submode but a check that will be constantly performed while parking.

---
---

## Final result
Adjusting the parameters, the car was finally able to park correctly:

 * [Video 1: Non-holonomic car](https://youtu.be/FBs34HNRn88)

 * [Video 2: Non-holonomic car](https://youtu.be/mgl__xB-O8E)

 * [Video 3: Holonomic car](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kXCA6mk_i40)
